# KING-trstats

## Creating command line tool to graph latency data of traceroute command

Project 1 will be about using traceroute, parsing its output, and performing a statistical analysis of the traceroute results.
This project will require using Python to create a command line tool that automatically executes traceroute multiple times towards a target domain name or IP address specified as command line parameter. Based on multiple traceroute executions, the program will need to derive latency statistics for each hop between the traceroute client and the target machine.
To allow for repeatable tests, the program should also allow reading pre-generated traceroute output traces stored on multiple text files (one text output trace per file). Based on this pre-generated output, the program will need to compute the latency statistics as for the case of live traceroute execution. 
Additional details about Project 1 will be provided in class.
Submission instructions
Make a directory called LASTNAME-trstats containing a single Python3 file called trstats.py and the requirements.txt file generated by pip freeze. Create a .tar.gz archive containing the LASTNAME-trstats directory, name the resulting file as Project1-LASTNAME_FIRSTNAME.tar.gz, and submit it via eLC under this assignment.
Detail instructions
Your command-line tool will need to support the following CLI arguments
usage: trstats.py [-h] [-n NUM_RUNS] [-d RUN_DELAY] [-m MAX_HOPS]
                    -o OUTPUT -g GRAPH [-t TARGET] [--test TEST_DIR]

Run traceroute multiple times towards a given target host

optional arguments:
  -h, --help       show this help message and exit
  -n NUM_RUNS      Number of times traceroute will run
  -d RUN_DELAY     Number of seconds to wait between two consecutive runs
  -m MAX_HOPS      Number of times traceroute will run
  -o OUTPUT        Path and name of output JSON file containing the stats
 -g GRAPH         Path and name of output PDF file containing stats graph
 -t TARGET        A target domain name or IP address (required if --test
                  is absent)
  --test TEST_DIR  Directory containing num_runs text files, each of which
                   contains the output of a traceroute run. If present, this
                   will override all other options and traceroute will not be
                   invoked. Stats will be computed over the traceroute output
                   stored in the text files
 
Essentially, the main task in this project is to write a Python3 wrapper arround traceroute, so that you can programmatically run traceroute multiple times, read the latency statistics output by every run, and build a distribution of latency values over which to compute the required statistics. For instance, the main output of your program should be a file in JSON format that looks like this example:
[{'avg': 0.645,
  'hop': 1,
  'hosts': [('172.17.0.1', '(172.17.0.1)')],
  'max': 2.441,
  'med': 0.556,
  'min': 0.013},
 {'avg': 6.386,
  'hop': 2,
  'hosts': [('testwifi.here', '(192.168.86.1)')],
  'max': 16.085,
  'med': 5.385,
  'min': 3.108},
 {'avg': 26.045,
  'hop': 3,
  'hosts': [('96.120.4.5', '(96.120.4.5)')],
  'max': 65.753,
  'med': 20.298,
  'min': 12.287},
 {'avg': 26.819,
  'hop': 4,
  'hosts': [('96.110.205.9', '(96.110.205.9)')],
  'max': 65.847,
  'med': 20.51,
  'min': 17.444},
...
 {'avg': 168.84,
  'hop': 18,
  'hosts': [('124.83.228.222', '(124.83.228.222)')],
  'max': 172.869,
  'med': 166.869,
  'min': 166.781}]
  
Also, the program should output a boxplot graph showing the latency distribution per each hop.



